initial ZIP drafts for ZSA transfer and issuance (#628)
zcash/zips: draft-ZIP-0226.rst

::

  ZIP: 226
  Title: Transfer and Burn of Zcash Shielded Assets
  Owners: Daniel Benarroch <daniel@qed-it.com>
          Pablo Kogan <pablo@qed-it.com>
          Aurelien Nicolas <aurel@qed-it.com>
  Credits: Daira Hopwood
           Jack Grigg
           Shahaf Nacshon
           Vivek Arte
  Status: Draft
  Category: Consensus
  Created: 2022-05-01
  License: MIT
  Discussions-To: <https://github.com/zcash/zips/issues/618>

Terminology
===========

The key word "MUST" in this document is to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [#RFC2119]_.

The term "network upgrade" in this document is to be interpreted as described in ZIP 200 [#zip-0200]_.

The term "Orchard" in this document is to be interpreted as described in ZIP 224 [#zip-0224]_.

We define the following additional terms:

> - Asset: A type of note that can be transferred on the Zcash block chain. ZEC is the default (and currently the only defined) asset for the Zcash mainnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Asset: A type of note that can be transferred on the Zcash block chain.

  - ZEC is the default (and currently the only defined) asset for the Zcash mainnet.

```

> - Zcash Shielded Asset: an asset with issuance defined on the Zcash block chain, and, for now, belonging to the Orchard anonymity pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Zcash Shielded Asset: an asset with issuance defined on the Zcash block chain, and, for now, belonging to the Orchard shielded pool.
```
```suggestion
- Zcash Shielded Asset: an asset with issuance defined on the Zcash block chain, and, for now, belonging to the Orchard anonymity pool.
```

> - Wrapped Asset: a ZSA asset with native issuance defined outside the Zcash block chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wrapped Asset: a ZSA with native issuance defined outside the Zcash block chain.
```

> - Wrapped Asset: a ZSA asset with native issuance defined outside the Zcash block chain.

Reviewer: Can we define native issuance, and distinguish from "on chain" issuance above?

Author: Done.

Abstract
========

ZIP 226 and ZIP 227 propose in conjunction the Zcash Shielded Assets (ZSA) protocol, which is an extension of the

> Orchard protocol that enables the creation, transfer and burn of custom assets on the Zcash chain. The creation of such assets is defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Orchard protocol that enables the creation, transfer, and burn of custom assets on the Zcash chain. The creation of such assets is defined
```

in ZIP 227 [#zip-0227]_. The transfer and burn of such assets is defined in ZIP 226 [#zip-0226]_.

Motivation
==========

> The current Orchard protocol does not support custom assets, which is an important aspect for the proper evolution of the Zcash ecosystem. Enabling multi-asset support on the Zcash chain will open the door for a host of applications and enhance the ecosystem with application developers and asset custody institutions for issuance and bridging purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current Orchard protocol does not support custom assets. Enabling multi-asset support on the Zcash chain will open the door for a host of applications and enhance the ecosystem with application developers and asset custody institutions for issuance and bridging purposes.
```

Overview
========

> In order to be able to represent different asset types in Orchard, one needs to define a new data field that uniquely represents the *type* of the asset in question, which we call :math:`\mathsf{type}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to be able to represent different asset types in Orchard, one needs to define a new data field that uniquely represents the *type* of the Asset in question, which we call :math:`\mathsf{type}`.
```

> The type will be used to enforce the balance of an action description [#protocol-actions]_ is preserved across assets (see the Orchard Binding Signature [#protocol-binding]_ , and by extension of an Orchard transaction. Mainly, the sum of all the :math:`\mathsf{value^{net}}`, as :math:`\mathsf{value^{old}-value^{new}}`, derived from each action description, must be balanced only **with respect to the same asset type**. This is specially important since we will allow different action descriptions to transfer notes of different asset types, where the overall balance is checked without revealing which assets (or how many different types) are being transferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The type will be used to enforce the balance of an Action Description [#protocol-actions]_ is preserved across Assets (see the Orchard Binding Signature [#protocol-binding]_), and by extension the balance of an Orchard transaction. That is, the sum of all the :math:`\mathsf{value^{net}}` from each Action Description, computed as :math:`\mathsf{value^{old}-value^{new}}`, must be balanced only **with respect to the same Asset type**. This is specially important since we will allow different Action Descriptions to transfer notes of different Asset types, where the overall balance is checked without revealing which Assets (or how many different types) are being transferred.
```

As was initially proposed by Jack Grigg and Daira Hopwood [#initial-zsa-issue]_, we propose to make this happen by changing the value base point, :math:`\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`, in the Homomorphic Pedersen Commitment that generates the value commitment, :math:`\mathsf{cv^{net}}`, of the *net value* in an Orchard Action.

> Because in a single transaction all value commitments are balanced, there must be as many different value base points as there are asset types in the transaction. We propose to make the :math:`\mathsf{type}` identifier an auxiliary input to the proof, represented already as a point in the Pallas curve. The circuit then should check that the same :math:`\mathsf{type}` is used in the old note commitment, in the new note commitment **and** in the value commitment as the base point of the value. This ensures that (1) the input and output notes are of the same type, and (2) that only actions with the same asset type identifier will balance out in the binding and balance signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because in a single transaction all value commitments are balanced, there must be as many different value base points as there are asset types in the transaction. We propose to make the :math:`\mathsf{type}` identifier an auxiliary input to the proof for each Action, represented already as a point on the Pallas curve. The circuit then should check that the same :math:`\mathsf{type}` is used in the old note commitment, in the new note commitment, **and** as the base point :math:`\mathcal{V}^\mathsf{Orchard}` in the value commitment. This ensures (1) that the input and output notes are of the same type, and (2) that only Actions with the same asset type identifier will balance out in the binding and balance signatures.
```

Reviewer 2: Added these changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

> In order to ensure the security of the transfers, and as we will explain below, we are replacing input dummy notes for custom assets, as we need to enforce that the type of the output note of that split action is the output of a PRF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to ensure the security of the transfers, and as we will explain below, we are redefining input dummy notes for custom Assets, as we need to enforce that the type of the output note of that split Action is the output of a PRF.
```

Reviewer 2: Added these changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

> Finally, in this ZIP we also describe the *burn* mechanism, which is a direct extension of the transfer mechanism. The burn process uses a similar mechanism than what is used in Orchard to unshield ZEC, by using the :math:`\mathsf{valueBalance}` of the asset in question. Burning assets is useful for many purposes, including bridging of wrapped assets and removing supply of native assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, in this ZIP we also describe the *burn* mechanism, which is a direct extension of the transfer mechanism. The burn process uses a similar mechanism to what is used in Orchard to unshield ZEC, by using the :math:`\mathsf{valueBalance}` of the Asset in question. Burning Assets is useful for many purposes, including bridging of Wrapped Assets and removing supply of Native Assets.
```

Define: Native Assets?

Reviewer 2: Added the suggested changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649). The definition of Native Assets was included prior to my comment.

Orchard Protocol Changes

> ========================

Reviewer 3: This should just be titled "Specification".

> Most of the protocol is kept the same as the Orchard protocol released with NU5, except the following that will be deployed to mainnet in subsequent network upgrades.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the protocol is kept the same as the Orchard protocol released with NU5, except the following, that will be deployed to Mainnet in subsequent network upgrades.
```

Reviewer 4: Deployment network information belongs in a "Deployment" section of a network upgrade ZIP, so we don't need to describe it here.

The "Deployment" section of this ZIP should explain how the protocol can be deployed, regardless of the network. (Network upgrades are deployed to testnet first, then mainnet, as described in the network upgrade ZIP.)

Author: This makes sense, I have removed the part talking about NU6 and added a Deployment section to explain how the deployment should be done

Asset Types
-----------

> In the OSA protocol, we include a new variable, the asset type identifier, :math:`\mathsf{type}`, which is generated as a 32-byte string during issuance (as described in the Issuance ZIP [#zip-0227]_). The :math:`\mathsf{type}` will then be publicly hashed into the corresponding group, in this case the Pallas curve, by using the :math:`\mathsf{GroupHash}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the ZSA protocol, we include a new variable, the Asset type identifier, :math:`\mathsf{type}`, which is generated as a 32-byte string during issuance (as described in the Issuance ZIP [#zip-0227]_). The :math:`\mathsf{type}` will then be publicly hashed into the corresponding group, in this case the group of points defined on the Pallas curve, by using the :math:`\mathsf{GroupHash}`
```

> function. In fact, every ZSA note will contain the group element representation of the asset type identifier. This will enable a much more elegant and simple version of the circuit, as we will see.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function. In fact, every ZSA note will contain the group element representation of the Asset type identifier. This will enable a more elegant and simple version of the circuit, as we will see.
```

More elegant and simple relative to?

Reviewer 2: This portion has been rewritten in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649), we have removed the "more elegant and simple" statement.

> We denote the string as :math:`\mathsf{type}` and we denote the equivalent group representation as :math:`\mathsf{type}_{\mathbb{G}}` when mapped into a specific group, :math:`\mathbb{G}`. Note that the type of the ZEC asset will be kept as the original value base-point, :math:`\mathcal{V}^\mathsf{Orchard}`

Reviewer 2: Added these changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

> In future network and protocol upgrades, the same asset type string can be carried on, with potentially a mapping into a different curve or group. In that case, the turnstile should know how to transform the asset type from one group to another one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In future network and protocol upgrades, the same Asset type string can be carried on, with potentially a mapping into a different shielded protocol. In that case, the turnstile should know how to transform the Asset type from one shielded protocol to another.
```

Reviewer 2: Added these changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

Note Structure & Commitment
---------------------------

> First, we need to adapt the components that define the assets, i.e.: *notes*. A ZSA note differs from an Orchard note by including the type of asset, :math:`\mathsf{type}_\mathbb{P}`. So an ZSA note looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we need to adapt the components that define the Assets, i.e.: *notes*. A ZSA note differs from an Orchard note by including the type of Asset, :math:`\mathsf{type}_\mathbb{P}`. So an ZSA note looks like:
```

Reviewer 2: Added these changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

:math:`(\mathsf{g_d, pk_d, v, \rho, \psi, type}_{\mathbb{P}})`

> Where :math:`\mathsf{type}_\mathbb{P}` is the unique random group element that identifies each asset in the Pallas curve [#protocol-pallasandvesta]_, [#pasta-evidence]_ of the Orchard protocol. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where :math:`\mathsf{type}_\mathbb{P}` is the unique random element of the Pallas group [#protocol-pallasandvesta]_, that identifies each asset in the Orchard protocol. 
```

Reviewer 2: Added these changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

> In this case, the note commitment, :math:`\mathsf{NoteCommit^{ZSA}_{rcm}}`, will differ from :math:`\mathsf{NoteCommit^{Orchard}_{rcm}}` in that for non-ZEC assets, the type will be added as an input to the commitment computation. As we will see, the recursive structure of the Sinsemilla-base commitment [#protocol-concretesinsemillacommit]_ allows us to add the type as a final recursive step, and hence keep a single instance of the hash function in the circuit for the note commitment verification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the note commitment scheme, :math:`\mathsf{NoteCommit^{ZSA}_{rcm}}`, will differ from :math:`\mathsf{NoteCommit^{Orchard}_{rcm}}` in that for non-ZEC Assets, the type will be added as an input to the commitment computation. As we will see, the nested structure of the Sinsemilla-base commitment [#protocol-concretesinsemillacommit]_ allows us to add the type as a final step, and hence keep a single instance of the Sinsemilla hash function in the circuit for the note commitment verification.
```

> Since the commitment output is still indistinguishable with the original Orchard ZEC note commitments, by definition of the Sinsemilla hash, ZSA note commitments will be added to the same Merkle Commitment Tree. In essence, we have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The commitment output is still indistinguishable from the original Orchard ZEC note commitments, by definition of the Sinsemilla hash. ZSA note commitments will therefore be added to the same Note Commitment Tree. In essence, we have
```

Reviewer 2: Added these changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

> :math:`\mathsf{NoteCommit^{ZSA}_{rcm}(repr_{\mathbb{P}}(g_d), repr_{\mathbb{P}}(pk_d), v, \rho, \psi, type_\mathbb{P})} \in \{\mathsf{cm},\bot\}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:math:`\mathsf{NoteCommit^{ZSA}_{rcm}(repr_{\mathbb{P}}(g_d), repr_{\mathbb{P}}(pk_d), v, \rho, \psi, type_\mathbb{P})} \in \{\mathsf{cm}, \bot\}`
```

Reviewer 2: Added these changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

The nullifier is generated in the same manner as in the Orchard protocol.

Value Commitment
----------------

The Orchard Protocol uses a Sinsemilla-based Homomorphic Pedersen Commitment [#protocol-concretevaluecommit]_ which is instantiated as

:math:`\mathsf{cv^{net}:=ValueCommit^{Orchard}_{rcv}(v^{net})}:= \mathsf{[v^{net}]}\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}+[\mathsf{rcv}]\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`

Where :math:`\mathsf{v^{net} = v^{old} - v^{new}}` and

:math:`\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}:=\mathsf{GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}}(\texttt{"z.cash:Orchard-cv", "v")}`

:math:`\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}:=\mathsf{GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}}(\texttt{"z.cash:Orchard-cv", "r")}`

In the case of the Orchard protocol, we see that the base points :math:`\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}` and
:math:`\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}` are fixed for every value commitment, as the values represent the amount of ZEC
being transferred.

> In the case of the ZSA protocol, the value of different asset types in a given transaction will be committed using a **different value base point**. This enables the final balance of the transaction to be securely computed, such that each asset type is balanced independently, as the assets are not meant to be fungible. The value commitment then becomes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of the ZSA protocol, the value of different Asset types in a given transaction will be committed using a **different value base point**. This enables the final balance of the transaction to be securely computed, such that each Asset type is balanced independently, as the Assets are not meant to be fungible. The value commitment then becomes
```

Reviewer 2: Added these changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

:math:`\mathsf{cv^{net}:=ValueCommit^{ZSA}_{rcv}(v^{net}_{type},\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{ZSA}}_{\mathsf{type}})}:= \mathsf{[v^{net}_{type}]}\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{ZSA}}_{\mathsf{type}}+[\mathsf{rcv}]\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`

where :math:`\mathsf{v^{net}_{type}} = \mathsf{v^{old}_{type} - v^{new}_{type}}` such that :math:`\mathsf{v^*_{type}}` is the value of the note of type :math:`\mathsf{type}`, and

> :math:`\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{ZSA}}_{\mathsf{type}}:=\mathsf{type_\mathbb{P}}= \mathsf{GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}}\texttt{("z.cash:Orchard-cv",type\_params)}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:math:`\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{ZSA}}_{\mathsf{type}}:=\mathsf{type_\mathbb{P}}= \mathsf{GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}}\texttt{("z.cash:Orchard-cv", type\_params)}`
```

`type\_params` MUST NOT  collide with `v`, which is the value in Orchard. Implementations of GroupHash can domain-separate all inputs to ensure this

Author: It is represented in the ZIP and are implemnenting it in the code too.

:math:`\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}:=\mathsf{GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}}\texttt{("z.cash:Orchard-cv", "r")}`

Where :math:`\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{ZSA}}_{\mathsf{ZEC}} =\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`.

Value Balance Verification
--------------------------

> In order to verify the balance of the different assets, verifier performs exactly the same the process as for the Orchard protocol [#protocol-binding]_. The main reason is because no custom assets can be unshielded, so all custom assets are contained within the shielded ZSA pool. This means that the net balance of the input and output values is zero, with only one type of value balance published, that of ZEC, :math:`\mathsf{v^{balanceOrchard}}`, so no net amount of any type will be revealed, and neither the nnumber of types in the transaction. The only exception to this is in the case that an asset is *burnt*, as we will see below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to verify the balance of the different Assets, the verifier performs exactly the same the process as for the Orchard protocol [#protocol-binding]_. The main reason why no changes are needed is that no custom Assets can be unshielded, so all custom Assets are contained within the shielded pool. This means that the net balance of the input and output values is zero, with only one type of value balance published, that of ZEC, :math:`\mathsf{v^{balanceOrchard}}`. Therefore no net amount of any type will be revealed, and neither will the number of types in the transaction. The only exception to this is in the case that an Asset is *burnt*, as we will see below.
```

Reviewer 3: Add a forward reference to the section describing burning.

Author: Done

> For a total of :math:`m` actions in a transfer, the prover can still sign the `SIGHASH` of the transaction using the binding signature key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a total of :math:`m` Actions in a transfer, the prover can still sign the `SIGHASH` of the transaction using the binding signature key
```

Reviewer 3: The protocol spec uses $n$ rather than $m$.

Author: Sounds good - changed it.

:math:`\mathsf{bsk} = \sum_{\mathsf{ \forall i\in \{1,...,m\}}} \mathsf{rcv_{i}}`

> Then we have that the verifier computes

Author: done.

:math:`\mathsf{bvk = (\sum cv_i^{net})}  - \mathsf{ ValueCommit_0^{Orchard}(v^{balanceOrchard})} = \sum \mathsf{rcv_{i}^{net}}\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`

> 

Reviewer 3: Is it necessary to repeat these formulae from the spec? They haven't changed at all. We can just link to https://zips.z.cash/protocol/protocol.pdf#orchardbalance

Author: Maybe we could do both? I do like that the ZIP is self-contained.

And uses it to verify the binding signature, as described in §4.14 of the Zcash Specification [#protocol-binding]_, by verifying the `bindingSignature` on the `SIGHASH` message.

> As in the Orchard protocol, the binding signature verification key, :math:`\mathsf{bvk}`, will only be valid (and hence verify the signature correctly, as long as all the value commitments (and corresponding value balances) are equal to zero. In contrast, in this protocol, the value commitments only cancel out **per asset type**, as the Pedersen commitments add up homomorphically only with respect to the same value base point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As in the Orchard protocol, the binding signature verification key, :math:`\mathsf{bvk}`, will only be valid (and hence verify the signature correctly), as long as all the value commitments (and corresponding value balances) are equal to zero. In contrast, in this protocol, the value commitments only cancel out **per asset type**, as the Pedersen commitments add up homomorphically only with respect to the same value base point.
```

Split Notes
-----------

> One of the key functionalities in a UTXO based protocol is the fact that input notes are usually split in two (or more) output notes, as in most cases, not all the value in a single note is sent to a single output. This is called a 1-to-many (Orchard) transaction. In order to cope with this today, the input note of the second (third and more) Action (which we call split notes and split Actions respectively) is a *dummy spend note* [#protocol-dummynotes]_. Basically, the input note is “faked” inside of the proof in order to hide which action contains the *real* spend note.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the key functionalities in a UTXO-based protocol is the fact that input notes are usually split in two (or more) output notes, as in most cases, not all the value in a single note is sent to a single output. This requires a 1-to-many (Orchard) transaction. However, because each Action represents and input and an output, the resulting transaction must have multiple inputs. In order to cope with this today, the Actions that have not been assigned input notes are instead given *dummy spend notes* [#protocol-dummynotes]_, which we call split Actions and split notes respectively. Basically, the input note is “faked” inside of the proof in order to hide which Action contains the *real* spend note.
```

Reviewer 3: This seems more like rationale than specification, but we're in a specification section.

Author: It feels a bit too technical to be in the overview. It is true that the specification section on split notes ends up with a lot of text, but I believe it is necessary. Happy to discuss it or see another alternative.

This, however, brings some issues when it comes to adding multiple asset types, as the output note of the split Actions *cannot* be of *any* asset type, it must be enforced to be an actual output of a GroupHash computation (in fact we want it to be of the same type as the original input note, but the binding signature takes care that the proper balancing is performed). If not, then the prover could essentially input a multiple (or linear combination of) an existing type, with the goal to attack the network by overflowing the ZEC value balance and hence counterfeiting ZEC funds.

> In order to prevent this, we make some modifications to the circuit. Specifically we remove the dummy note functionality for custom assets and we enforce that *every* input note to an ZSA Action must be proven to exist in the set of note commitments in the Merkle Tree. We then enforce this real note to be “unspendable” in the sense that its value

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to prevent this, we make some modifications to the circuit. Specifically we remove the dummy note functionality for custom Assets and we enforce that *every* input note to an ZSA Action must be proven to exist in the set of note commitments in the Merkle Tree. We then enforce this real note to be “unspendable” in the sense that its value
```

Reviewer 2: Added these changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

> will be zeroed in split Actions and the nullifier will be randomized, making the note not spendable in the specific Action. Then, the proof itself ensures that the output note is of the same type as the input note. In the circuit, the split note functionality will be activated by a boolean private input to the proof.

Reviewer 3: This is confusing unless you already know how it's supposed to work.

Reviewer 2: This has been rewritten subsequently, please refer to [PR#680](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/680) for the latest versions.

> Note that this is enough to create a chain of induction that ensures that all output notes of a transfer are actual outputs of a GroupHash, preventing any malleability attacks, as they originate in the Issuance protocol, which is publicly verified. Furthermore, we do not care about whether the note is owned by the sender, or whether it was nullified before. Wallets and other clients have a choice to make to ensure the asset type is the preserved for the output note of a split Action, for the value balance verification:

Reviewer 3: > Furthermore, we do not care about whether the note is owned by the sender, or whether it was nullified before.

Also confusing.

1. The split input note could be the same note as the original (non-split) Action, 
2. The split input note could be a different unspent note of the same type (note that the note will not actually be spent)
3. The split input note could be an already spent note of the same type (note that by zeroing the value in the circuit, we prevent double spending)

The specific circuit changes are presented below.

Circuit Statement
=================

> The advantage of the design described above, with respect to the circuit statement, is that every *ZSA Action statement* is kept closely similar to the Orchard Action statement [#protocol-actionstatement]_, except for a few additions that ensure the security of the asset type system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The advantage of the design described above, with respect to the circuit statement, is that every *ZSA Action statement* is kept closely similar to the Orchard Action statement [#protocol-actionstatement]_, except for a few additions that ensure the security of the Asset type system.
```

Reviewer 2: Added these changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

> **Asset Type Equality:** the following constraints must be added to ensure that the input and output note are of the
> same type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Asset Type Equality:** the following constraints must be added to ensure that
the input and output note are of the same Asset type:
```

> - The asset type, :math:`\mathsf{type_\mathbb{P}}`, for the note is witnessed once, as an auxiliary input.
> - The witnessed asset type, :math:`\mathsf{type_\mathbb{P}}`, is added to the old note commitment input.
> - The witnessed asset type, :math:`\mathsf{type_\mathbb{P}}`, is added to the new note commitment input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Asset type, :math:`\mathsf{type_\mathbb{P}}`, for the note is witnessed once, as an auxiliary input.
- The witnessed Asset type, :math:`\mathsf{type_\mathbb{P}}`, is added to the old note commitment input.
- The witnessed Asset type, :math:`\mathsf{type_\mathbb{P}}`, is added to the new note commitment input.
```

Reviewer 3: The is too vague. Need a precise specification of how the note commitment is changed.

Author: Agreed, working on that.

**Correct Value Commitment Type:** the following constraints must be added to ensure that the value commitment is computed using the witnessed type, as represented in the notes

> 

Reviewer 2: Added these changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

- The fixed-base multiplication constraints between the value and the value base point of the value commitment,:math:`\mathsf{cv}`, is replaced with a variable-base multiplication between the two

> - The witness to the value base-point is the auxiliary input :math:`\mathsf{type}_\mathbb{P}`.

Reviewer 3: We need to specify ZEC notes and ZSA notes, and say that the value base for a ZEC note is the original value base $\mathcal{V}^\mathsf{Orchard}$.

Author: Done

> **Enforce Secure Type for Split Actions:** the following constraints must be added to prevent senders from malling with the asset type for the output note in the consequent actions of the split:

Author: I fixed it:
- malling -> changing
- consequent actions -> Split Actions

- The Value Commitment Integrity should be changed
    - Replace the input note value by a generic value, `v'`, as :math:`\mathsf{cv^net} = \mathsf{ValueCommit_rcv^OrchardType(v’ - v^new, type}_\mathbb{P})`

> - Add a boolean “split” variable as an auxiliary witness. This variable is to be activated `split = 1` if the Action in question is a split and `split = 0` if the Action is actually spending an input note:

Reviewer 3: "is a split" needs to be defined.

Author: Done

>     - If `split = 1` then set `v' = 0` otherwise `v'=v^old` from the auxiliary input

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - If :math:`split = 1` then constrain :math:`v' = 0` otherwise constrain :math:`v'=v^old` from the auxiliary input.
    - If :math:`split = 1` then constrain :math:`v^{old} \neq 0`.
```
The latter condition is necessary in order to ensure that the Merkle Path Validity condition is still enforced, so that we know that the input note has a valid base.

Reviewer 2: @PaulLaux @ConstanceBeguier we need to ensure this is in the implementation.

Reviewer 2: Change incorporated into the ZIP.

> - The Merkle Path Validity should check the existance of the note commitment as usual (and not like with dummy notes):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Give the explicit rule rather than trying to describe how it changes.
```

> - The Merkle Path Validity should check the existance of the note commitment as usual (and not like with dummy notes):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The Merkle Path Validity should check the existence of the note commitment as usual (and not like with dummy notes):
```

Reviewer 2: Added this change in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

>     - Check that (path, pos) is a valid Merkle path of depth :math:`\mathsf{MerkleDepth^Orchard}`, from :math:`\mathsf{cm^old}` to the anchor :math:`\mathsf{rt^Orchard}`.

Reviewer 3: The new statement of the rule has to take into account the $\mathsf{v^{old}} = 0$ case when the asset type is ZEC.

Reviewer 2: The latest PR has [this comment](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/680#discussion_r1190415428) which is a suggestion that will handle this comment as well. Please refer to that comment for further discussion and resolution.

- The Nullifier Integrity will be changed to prevent the identification of notes
    - Replace the :math:`\psi_{old}` value with a generic :math:`\psi'` as :math:`\mathsf{nf_old = DeriveNullifier_nk}(\rho^\mathsf{old}, \psi', \mathsf{cm^old})`

>     - if `split = 1` set :math:`\psi' = \mathsf{randomSample}`, otherwise set :math:`\psi' = \psi^{old}`

Reviewer 3: Is this intended to mean that the circuit does not constrain $\psi'$ when `split = 1`?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - If :math:`split = 0` then constrain :math:`\psi' = \psi^\mathsf{old}`. (Otherwise :math:`\psi'` should be sampled randomly.)
```

Reviewer 2: Added these changes in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

**Enabling Backwards Compatibility with ZEC Notes:** the following constraints must be added to enable backwards compatibility with the Orchard ZEC notes.

> The old note commitment is computed using a “rolling-aggregate” sinsemilla commitment. This means that the commitment is computed by adding new chunks or windows to the accumulated value. This method will be used in order to maintain a single commitment instance for the old note commitment, that will be used both for Orchard ZEC notes and for ZSA notes. The original Orchard ZEC notes will be conserved and not actually be converted into ZSA notes, as we will always need to compute them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The old note commitment is computed using a “rolling-aggregate” Sinsemilla commitment. This means that the commitment is computed by adding new chunks or windows to the accumulated value. This method will be used in order to maintain a single commitment instance for the old note commitment, that will be used both for Orchard ZEC notes and for ZSA notes. The original Orchard ZEC notes will be conserved and not actually be converted into ZSA notes, as we will always need to compute them.
```

Reviewer 3: This needs to be specified more precisely.

Reviewer 2: Has been specified more formally, refer to PR#680 for the latest updates.

        - The NoteCommitment uses a different domain separator for ZSA note commitment

Backward Compatibility
----------------------

In order to have a "clean" backwards compatibility with the ZEC notes, we have designed the circuit to support both ZEC and ZSA notes. As we specify above, there are three main reasons we can do this:
- The input notes with a type denote the ZSA custom assets, generating a note commitment that includes the type; whereas the notes without a type, denote the ZEC notes, and generate a note commitment that does not include the type, in order to maintain the referencability to the Merkle tree
- The value commitment is abstracted to allow for the value base-point as a variable private input to the proof
- The ZEC-based actions will still include dummy input notes, whereas the ZSA-based actions will include split input notes

Burn Mechanism
==============
The burn mechanism may be needed for off-boarding the wrapped assets from the chain, or enabling advanced tokenomics on native tokens. It is part of the Issuance/Burn protocol, but given that it can be seen as an extension of the Transfer protocol, we add it here for readability.

> In essence, the burn mechanism is a transparent / revealing extension to the transfer protocol that enables a specific amount of any asset type to be sent into “oblivion”. Our burn mechanism does NOT send assets to a non-spendable address, it simply reduces the total number of assets in circulation at the consensus level. It is enforced at the consensus level, by using an extension of the value balance mechanism used for ZEC assets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In essence, the burn mechanism is a transparent / revealing extension to the transfer protocol that enables a specific amount of any Asset type to be sent into “oblivion”. Our burn mechanism does NOT send Assets to a non-spendable address, it simply reduces the total number of units of a given Asset in circulation at the consensus level. It is enforced at the consensus level, by using an extension of the value balance mechanism used for ZEC Assets.
```

Reviewer 2: Done in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

> First, contrary to the strict transfer transaction, we allow the sender to include a :math:`\mathsf{valueBalvalueBalance_{type}}` variable for every asset type that is being burnt. As we will show in the transaction structure, this is separate from the regular :math:`\mathsf{valueBalance^Orchard}` that is the default transparent value for the ZEC asset.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, contrary to the strict transfer transaction, we allow the sender to include a :math:`\mathsf{valueBalance_{type}}` variable for every asset type that is being burnt. As we will show in the transaction structure, this is separate from the regular :math:`\mathsf{valueBalance^Orchard}` that is the default transparent value for the ZEC asset.
```

Reviewer 2: Done in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

For every custom asset that is burnt, we add to the `assetBurn` vector the tuple :math:`(\mathsf{valueBalance_{type}, type}_\mathbb{P})` such that the validator of the transaction can compute the value commitment with the corresponding value base point of that asset. This ensures that the values are all balanced out with respect to the asset types in the transfer.

> :math:`\mathsf{assetBurn = [(v^{type}, type_\mathbb{P})}| \forall \mathsf{type}_\mathbb{P}  \textit{ s.t.}\mathsf{v^{type}\neq 0}]`

Reviewer 3: Is there a consensus rule that each $v^{type} \neq 0$?

Reviewer 2: This has been added in now, thanks!

The value balances for each asset type in `assetBurn` represents the amount of that asset type that is being burnt. In the case of ZEC, the value balance represents either the transaction fee, or the amount of ZEC changing anonymity pools (to Sapling or Transparent).

Finally, the validator needs to verify the Balance and Binding Signature by adding the value balances for all assets, as committed using their respective types as the value base point of the Pedersen Commitment. This is done as follows

:math:`\mathsf{bvk = (\sum cv_i^{net})}  - \mathsf{ ValueCommit_0^{Orchard}(v^{balanceOrchard})} - \sum_{\forall \mathsf{type}\textit{ s.t. }\mathsf{v^{type}\neq 0}} \mathsf{Value Commit_0^{ZSA}(v^{type}type_\mathbb{P}) } = \sum \mathsf{rcv_{i,j}^{net}}\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`

In the case that the balance of all the action values related to a specific asset will be zero, there will be no value added to the vector. This way, the number of assets, nor their types will be revealed, except in the case that an asset is burnt.

> **Note:** Even if this mechanism allows having transparent ↔  shielded asset transfers in theory, the transparent protocol will not be changed with this ZIP to adapt to a multiple asset structure. This means that unless future consensus rules changes do allow it, the unshielding is not not be possible for custom assets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note:** Even if this mechanism allows having transparent ↔ shielded asset transfers in theory, the transparent protocol will not be changed with this ZIP to adapt to a multiple asset structure. This means that unless future consensus rules changes do allow it, unshielding will not be possible for custom assets.
```

Reviewer 2: Done in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

ZSA Transaction Structure
=========================
Similar to NU5 transaction structure, with the following modifications to the Orchard bundle, as defined in [#protocol-transactionstructure]_:

+-----------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+-------------------------+
| Bytes           | Name        | Data Type                         | Description             |
+=================+=============+===================================+=========================+
| newActionSize * | vActionsZSA | ActionDescription[nActionOrchard] |                         |
| nActionsZSA     |             |                                   |                         |
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+-------------------------+
| varies          | nAssetBurn  | compactSize                       | number of assets burnt  |
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+-------------------------+
| 40*nAssetBurn   | vAssetBurn  | bytes[40][nAssetBurn]             | 32 bytes asset type_t,  |

> |                 |             |                                   | 8 bytes of valueBalance |

Reviewer 4: If we want to support wrapped ETH, we might want a 128-bit value balance here, to support wei (10^18^ ~= 2^68^).

But if we want to support any ERC20 asset, we might want 256-bit value balance.

See more details here from a developer who has tried to adapt Sapling to wrap ETH:
https://discord.com/channels/809218587167293450/1007021690510921728/1012505609926611114

Reviewer 3: A 256-bit value balance would be tricky to support because it would invalidate the argument that value balances do not overflow. We should look more carefully at which ERC20 assets this would exclude.

Reviewer 3: The note commitment input includes a 64-bit encoding of the note value. We could include the high 64 bits in the same extension that is used for the type of non-ZEC notes.

In order to ensure the security of the transfers, and as we will explain below, we are replacing input dummy notes for custom assets, as we need to enforce that the type of the output note of that split action is the output of a PRF.

Finally, in this ZIP we also describe the *burn* mechanism, which is a direct extension of the transfer mechanism. The burn process uses a similar mechanism than what is used in Orchard to unshield ZEC, by using the :math:`\mathsf{valueBalance}` of the asset in question. Burning assets is useful for many purposes, including bridging of wrapped assets and removing supply of native assets.

Specification
=============

Most of the protocol is kept the same as the Orchard protocol released with NU5, except for the following.

Asset Types
-----------

In the OSA protocol, we include a new variable, the asset type identifier, :math:`\mathsf{type}`, which is generated as a 32-byte string during issuance (as described in the Issuance ZIP [#zip-0227]_). The :math:`\mathsf{type}` will then be publicly hashed into the corresponding group, in this case the Pallas curve, by using the :math:`\mathsf{GroupHash}`

> function. In fact, every ZSA note will contain the group element representation of the asset type identifier. This will enable a much more elegant and simple version of the circuit, as we will see.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
function. In fact, every ZSA note will contain a group element representation of the asset type identifier, called the *value base* of the type. This will enable a much more elegant and simple version of the circuit, as we will see.
```

Value Balance Verification
--------------------------

In order to verify the balance of the different assets, verifier performs exactly the same the process as for the Orchard protocol [#protocol-binding]_. The main reason is because no custom assets can be unshielded, so all custom assets are contained within the shielded ZSA pool. This means that the net balance of the input and output values is zero, with only one type of value balance published, that of ZEC, :math:`\mathsf{v^{balanceOrchard}}`, so no net amount of any type will be revealed, and neither the nnumber of types in the transaction. The only exception to this is in the case that an asset is *burnt*, as we will see below in burnmechanism_.

For a total of :math:`n` actions in a transfer, the prover can still sign the `SIGHASH` of the transaction using the binding signature key

:math:`\mathsf{bsk} = \sum_{\mathsf{ \forall i\in \{1,...,n\}}} \mathsf{rcv_{i}}`

Then we have that the verifier computes

:math:`\mathsf{bvk = (\sum cv_i^{net})}  - \mathsf{ ValueCommit_0^{Orchard}(v^{balanceOrchard})} = \sum \mathsf{rcv_{i}^{net}}\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`

> 
> And uses it to verify the binding signature, as described in §4.14 of the Zcash Specification [#protocol-binding]_, by verifying the `bindingSignature` on the `SIGHASH` message.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and uses it to verify the binding signature, as described in §4.14 of the Zcash Specification [#protocol-binding]_, by verifying the `bindingSignature` on the `SIGHASH` message.
```

In order to prevent this, we make some modifications to the circuit. Specifically we remove the dummy note functionality for custom assets and we enforce that *every* input note to an ZSA Action must be proven to exist in the set of note commitments in the Merkle Tree. We then enforce this real note to be “unspendable” in the sense that its value
will be zeroed in split Actions and the nullifier will be randomized, making the note not spendable in the specific Action. Then, the proof itself ensures that the output note is of the same type as the input note. In the circuit, the split note functionality will be activated by a boolean private input to the proof.

> Note that this is enough to create a chain of induction that ensures that all output notes of a transfer are actual outputs of a GroupHash, preventing any malleability attacks, as they originate in the Issuance protocol, which is publicly verified. Furthermore, we do not care about whether the note is owned by the sender, or whether it was nullified before. Wallets and other clients have a choice to make to ensure the asset type is the preserved for the output note of a split Action, for the value balance verification:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This creates a chain of induction that ensures that the value bases of all output notes of a transfer are actual outputs of a GroupHash, as they originate in the Issuance protocol, which is publicly verified. If this were not done then it would be possible to violate balance, for example by using a value base derived from the value bases of other Assets.

Note that we do not care about whether the note is owned by the sender, or whether it was nullified before.

Wallets and other clients have a choice to make to ensure the Asset type is preserved for the output note of a Split Action:
```

Reviewer 2: Suggestion incorporated in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

> 1. The split input note could be the same note as the original (non-split) Action, 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. The split input note could be another note of the same type that is being spent by this transaction (but not by this Split Input).
```

Reviewer 2: Suggestion incorporated in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

> 2. The split input note could be a different unspent note of the same type (note that the note will not actually be spent)
> 3. The split input note could be an already spent note of the same type (note that by zeroing the value in the circuit, we prevent double spending)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. The split input note could be a different unspent note of the same type (note that the note will not actually be spent).
3. The split input note could be an already spent note of the same type (note that by zeroing the value in the circuit, we prevent double spending).
```

Reviewer 2: Suggestion incorporated in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

The specific circuit changes are presented below.

Circuit Statement
=================

The advantage of the design described above, with respect to the circuit statement, is that every *ZSA Action statement* is kept closely similar to the Orchard Action statement [#protocol-actionstatement]_, except for a few additions that ensure the security of the asset type system.

**Asset Type Equality:** the following constraints must be added to ensure that the input and output note are of the
same type:

- The asset type, :math:`\mathsf{type_\mathbb{P}}`, for the note is witnessed once, as an auxiliary input.
- The witnessed asset type, :math:`\mathsf{type_\mathbb{P}}`, is added to the old note commitment input.
- The witnessed asset type, :math:`\mathsf{type_\mathbb{P}}`, is added to the new note commitment input.

**Correct Value Commitment Type:** the following constraints must be added to ensure that the value commitment is computed using the witnessed type, as represented in the notes

- The fixed-base multiplication constraints between the value and the value base point of the value commitment,:math:`\mathsf{cv}`, is replaced with a variable-base multiplication between the two

> - The witness to the value base-point, as defined in valuebase_ is the auxiliary input :math:`\mathsf{type}_\mathbb{P}`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The witness to the value base-point, as defined in `valuebase`_ is the auxiliary input :math:`\mathsf{type}_\mathbb{P}`.
```

> **Enforce Secure Type for Split Actions:** the following constraints must be added to prevent senders from changing the asset type for the output note in the Split Actions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Enforce Secure Type for Split Actions:** the following constraints must be added to prevent senders from changing the asset type for the output note in a Split Action:
```

Reviewer 2: Suggestion incorporated in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

We define the following additional terms:

- Asset: A type of note that can be transferred on the Zcash block chain.

  - ZEC is the default (and currently the only defined) asset for the Zcash mainnet.

- Zcash Shielded Asset: an Asset with issuance defined on the Zcash block chain, and, for now, belonging to the Orchard shielded pool.
- Wrapped Asset: a Zcash Shielded Asset with native issuance defined outside the Zcash block chain.
- Native Asset: a Zcash Shielded Asset created uniquely within the Zcash block chain.

> - Split Note: a Zcash Shielded Asset spend note that is used within an Action to ensure the output note of that Action is of a specific type. The Split Note is not spent in the transaction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Split Input: an Action input identifying a Zcash Shielded Asset note, in order to ensure that the output note of that Action is of a validly issued type, when there is no corresponding real input note to spend. The Action does not spend the note identified by the Split Input.
```

> - Split Note: a Zcash Shielded Asset spend note that is used within an Action to ensure the output note of that Action is of a specific type. The Split Note is not spent in the transaction.
> - Split Action: a Zcash Shielded Asset Action that contains a Split Note.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Split Input: an Action input identifying a Zcash Shielded Asset note, in order to ensure that the output note of that Action is of a validly issued type, when there is no corresponding real input note to spend. The Action does not spend the note identified by the Split Input.
- Split Action: a Zcash Shielded Asset Action that contains a Split Input.
```

Reviewer 2: Suggestion incorporated in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

Abstract
========

ZIP 226 and ZIP 227 propose in conjunction the Zcash Shielded Assets (ZSA) protocol, which is an extension of the
Orchard protocol that enables the creation, transfer, and burn of custom assets on the Zcash chain. The creation of such assets is defined
in ZIP 227 [#zip-0227]_. The transfer and burn of such assets is defined in ZIP 226 [#zip-0226]_.

Motivation
==========

> The current Orchard protocol does not support custom assets. Enabling multi-asset support on the Zcash chain will open the door for a host of applications and enhance the ecosystem with application developers and asset custody institutions for issuance and bridging purposes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The current Orchard protocol does not support custom assets. Enabling multi-asset support on the Zcash chain will open the door for a host of applications, and enhance the ecosystem with application developers and asset custody institutions for issuance and bridging purposes.
```

Reviewer 2: Suggestion incorporated in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).

Value Balance Verification
--------------------------

> In order to verify the balance of the different assets, verifier performs exactly the same the process as for the Orchard protocol [#protocol-binding]_. The main reason is because no custom assets can be unshielded, so all custom assets are contained within the shielded ZSA pool. This means that the net balance of the input and output values is zero, with only one type of value balance published, that of ZEC, :math:`\mathsf{v^{balanceOrchard}}`, so no net amount of any type will be revealed, and neither the nnumber of types in the transaction. The only exception to this is in the case that an asset is *burnt*, as we will see below in burnmechanism_.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion incorporated in [PR#649](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649).
